h1. clj-etl-utils

ETL Utilities for Clojure.  This library was created as a collecitng point for
various utilities for handling a multitude of file encodings, record formats
and other ETL activities.

h2. Modules

h3. clj-etl-utils.http

This is a wrapper around Apache Jakarta Commons HttpClent.  This is yet another http client library for clojure.  This implementation is not attempting to be dependency free (as are many of the other clojure http client libraries).  It is merely a convienience wrapper around the Jakarta Commons HttpClient.  I need to utilize many of the common features that user agents typically support such as: cookies, automatically following redirects, basic authentication including realms, automatic form encoding, posting non-form url encoded data, etc.  Jakart's HTTP Client fits this feature set very well, thought its api is not brief - this library attempts to make it more convienient to use without limiting access to any of its advanced features.

h4. User Agent

Creating a user agent is done by calling the @(user-agent) function.  It accepts two paramters: @:follow-redirects@ which controls whether or not it follows HTTP redirect responses to the pointed to locations; and @:basic-auth which allows you to supply authorization credentials for HTTP's basic auth system.

pre.
    (ws/get  (user-agent) url :params {:foo "bar"})
    (ws/post (user-agent) url :params {:foo "bar"})
    (ws/post (user-agent) url :body "this is the body" :content-type "text/plain")
    (ws/post (user-agent) url :body "<xml? ...>"       :content-type "text/xml")

    (defonce *ua* (user-agent :follow-redirects :true
                              ;; defaults to Realm/ANY, you can override with :realm value
                              :basic-auth {:user "bob" :pass "sekret"}))

    (let [req (ws/get-req url :params {:foo "bar"})]
      (ws/get *ua* req))

    (let [req (ws/get-req url :params {:foo "bar"})]
      (ws/get *ua* req))

    (ws/post *ua* url :params {:foo "bar"})
    (ws/post *ua* url :body "this is the body" :content-type "text/plain")


h3. clj-etl-utils.indexer

Module for working with line-oriented data files in-situ on disk.  These tools allow you to create (somewhat) arbitrary indexes into a file and walk through the indexed values.

h4. Example

Given the tab delimited file @file.txt@:

    99	line with larger key
    1	is is the second line
    2	this is a line
    3	this is another line
    99	duplicated line for key

We can create an index on the @id@ column id:

    (index-file! "file.txt" ".file.txt.id-idx" #(first (.split % "\t")))

That index can then be used to read groups of records from the file with
the same key values:

    (record-blocks-via-index "file.txt" ".file.txt.id-idx")

    ( [ "1\tis is the second line" ]
      [ "2\tthis is a line" ]
      [ "3\tthis is another line" ]
      [ "99\tline with larger key"
        "99\tduplicated line for key" ] )

h3. clj-etl-utils.io

IO and File utilities.

h4. first-n-bytes-available

Helper method that attempts to read the first N bytes from a stream, resetting the stream so the bytes can be read again.  Note that this does not work with all stream types, as not all of them supports being marked and resetting.

h4. byte-marker-matches?

Given the bytes of a marker and the bytes from a file, tests to see if the marker matches what was pulled from the file.  This can be thought of as an equality test.

h4. detect-stream-encoding-via-bom

Looks at the first few bytes in the file to determine what the file's encoding is.  The detected encoding is returned as a map.

h4. detect-file-encoding-via-bom

Returns the encoding map for the file by inspecting the first few bytes of the file.

h4. unicode-input-stream

Given a path to a file, this will detect and then open a FileInputStream with the detected encoding set on the reader.

h4. string-reader, string-input-stream

Returns a Reader or an InputStream, respectively, that will read from the given string.

h4. chmod

Changes the permissions on a file by shelling out to the @chmod@ command.

h4. mkdir

Creates the given directory, just returning true if the given directory already exists (as opposed to throwing an exception).

h4. exists?

Tests if a file exists.

h4. symlink

Establishes a symlink for a file.

h4. freeze, thaw

freeze invokes the java serialization and returns a byte array.  Thaw does the opposite: takes a byte array and deserializes it.

h4. ensure-directory

Ensures a directory path exists (recursively), doing nothing if it already exists.

h4. string-gzip

Compress a string, returning the bytes.

h4. byte-partitions-at-line-boundaries

This can be used in divide and conquer scenarios where you want to process different segments of a single file in parallel.  It takes an input file name and a desired block size.  Block boundaries will be close to teh desired size - the size is used as a seek position, any line remnant present at that position is read, such that a given block will end cleanly at a line boundary.

h4. random-access-file-line-seq-with-limit

Returns a lazy sequence of lines from a RandomAccessFile up to a given limit.  If a line spans the limit, the entire line will be returned, so that a valid line is always returned.

h4. read-lines-from-file-segment

Returns a sequence of lines from the file across the given starting and ending positions.

h3. clj-etl-utils.landmark_parser

h3. clj-etl-utils.lang

h3. clj-etl-utils.log

h3. clj-etl-utils.ref_data

h3. clj-etl-utils.regex

h3. clj-etl-utils.sequences

h3. clj-etl-utils.text



h2. Installation

Leiningen and Maven repository / depdencney inforamtion using Clojars.

h2. References

UTF and BOM

  http://unicode.org/faq/utf_bom.html

EncodingHeuristics

  http://downloads.atlassian.com/software/clover/samples/xom/nu/xom/xinclude/EncodingHeuristics.html
  http://xom.dev.java.net/source/browse/xom/

h2. Random Sampling

  "How to pick a random sample from a list":http://www.javamex.com/tutorials/random_numbers/random_sample.shtml

h2. License

This code is covered under the same as Clojure.


h3. Periodic Invoker

lang/make-periodic-invoker can be used to easily create 'progress' indicators or bars:

pre.
    (let [total    1000
          period     100
          progress (lang/make-periodic-invoker
                    period
                    (fn [val & [is-done]]
                      (if (= is-done :done)
                        (printf "All Done! %d\n" val)
                        (printf "So far we did %d, we are  %3.2f%% complete.\n" val (* 100.0 (/ val 1.0 total))))))]
      (dotimes [ii total]
        ;; do some work / processing here
        (progress))
      (progress :final :done))

Produces the following output:

pre.
    So far we did 100, we are  10.00% complete.
    So far we did 200, we are  20.00% complete.
    So far we did 300, we are  30.00% complete.
    So far we did 400, we are  40.00% complete.
    So far we did 500, we are  50.00% complete.
    So far we did 600, we are  60.00% complete.
    So far we did 700, we are  70.00% complete.
    So far we did 800, we are  80.00% complete.
    So far we did 900, we are  90.00% complete.
    So far we did 1000, we are  100.00% complete.
    All Done! 1000

